Bucks, but I resisted the urge.) More important than the content of the comic, I think, was the way it acted as a common meeting point, both literally and figuratively, for all kinds of whimsical geeks.

I’ve been supported by sales of <i>xkcd</i> prints, posters, and t-shirts, but people kept asking for a book. Having grown up on Calvin and Hobbes collections, I liked the idea, but the big stumbling block was that we needed print-quality versions of the strips. I had tried to save high-resolution versions of all my comics, but due to a combination of disorganization in the early days of the strip and a badly-timed laptop theft, about 30% of them were missing. Since I do the initial art and lettering on paper, I still had nearly all the originals, but precisely recreating the comics from the disjointed drawings&mdash;down to every angle of every stick-figure limb&mdash;was a daunting task. I decided to assemble a collection of some of my favorite <i>xkcd</i> strips, and spent several months painstakingly reconstructing the missing ones, fitting all of them together onto pages, and adding notes and doodles in the margins. This book is the result.

To Derek, Sarah, Donny and David, Elizabeth and the <i>#xkcd</i> ops, Jordan and the forum admins, Rosemary, my brothers Ricky and Doug, and a slew of other people&mdash;thank you. I've appreciated your ability to help out with the <i>xkcd</i> project and community over the years, coping all the while with my sometimes implausible ideas and poor organizational skills. And to my parents, for raising me nerdy, sending me to college, and remaining supportive when I quit NASA to draw stick figures having sex, I can't thank you enough.

Okay, on to the comics!
